docs/ARCHITECTURE.md, before:

# Architecture

## Pipeline Overview

The agentic pipeline turns Product Requirements Documents (PRDs) into shipped code
with minimal human intervention. Ten workflows cooperate in a loop:

```
 You write a PRD
       |
       v
 +-----------------+     creates      +------------------+
 | prd-decomposer  | ──────────────>  | GitHub Issues    |
 | (agentic, gpt-5)|     (atomic,     | with acceptance  |
 +-----------------+   ordered by dep) | criteria         |
       |                               +------------------+
       | dispatches                           |
       v                                      |
 +-----------------+     implements           |
 | repo-assist     | <───────────────────────-+
 | (agentic, gpt-5)|
 +-----------------+
       |
       | opens PR
       v
 +-----------------+  posts verdict   +--------------------+
 | pr-review-agent | ──────────────> | pr-review-submit | ──> Squash merge (auto)
 | (agentic, gpt-5)|  (comment)       | (GHA, bot)         |
 +-----------------+                  +--------------------+
       |                                      |
       | re-dispatches if                     | triggers
       | issues remain                        v
       |                              +------------------+
       |                              | close-issues     |
       |                              | (GHA, on merge)  |
       |                              +------------------+
       v                                      |
 +-----------------+                          |
 | repo-assist     | <───── cycle continues ──+
 +-----------------+
       ^
       |  detects stalls
 +-----------------+
 | pipeline-       |
 | watchdog        |
 | (cron, 30 min)  |
 +-----------------+
```

## Workflows

### prd-decomposer

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/prd-decomposer.md` |
| **Engine** | Copilot (gpt-5) |
| **Trigger** | `/decompose` command on an issue |
| **Output** | Up to 20 atomic GitHub Issues with `[Pipeline]` prefix, acceptance criteria, and dependency ordering |

Reads a PRD from the issue body, decomposes it into implementable issues labeled
`pipeline` + a type label (`feature`, `infra`, `test`, `docs`, `bug`). Issues
reference each other via temporary IDs for dependency ordering. After creating
all issues, dispatches `repo-assist` once.

### repo-assist

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/repo-assist.md` |
| **Engine** | Copilot (gpt-5) |
| **Trigger** | Dispatch from prd-decomposer or pr-review-submit, daily schedule, `/repo-assist` command |
| **Output** | Up to 4 PRs per run |

Runs a 5-task cycle each invocation:

1. **Implement issues** — picks unblocked pipeline issues, creates branches from `main`, writes code, runs tests, opens PRs with `Closes #N`
2. **Maintain PRs** — fixes CI failures and merge conflicts on open pipeline PRs
3. **Unblock dependents** — comments on issues whose dependencies have resolved
4. **Handle review feedback** — implements requested changes from pr-review-agent
5. **Update project board** — posts a status update to the [GitHub Projects v2 board](https://github.com/users/samuelkahessay/projects/2) every run

Persists memory on an orphan branch (`memory/repo-assist`) to track attempted
issues, outcomes, and backlog state across runs.

### pr-review-agent + pr-review-submit

The PR reviewer is split into two workflows to preserve **identity separation**:

#### pr-review-agent

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/pr-review-agent.md` |
| **Engine** | Copilot (gpt-5) — full 64K-128K+ context window |
| **Trigger** | Automatic on PR opened/updated/ready; `workflow_dispatch` |
| **Output** | Verdict comment on the PR (starting with `[PIPELINE-VERDICT]`) |

Agentic workflow that runs as the Copilot app identity. Reads the **full PR diff**
(no truncation), linked issue acceptance criteria, CI status, and AGENTS.md. Posts
a structured verdict comment — does NOT submit a formal GitHub review.

Review process:
1. Reads AGENTS.md for project context and coding standards
2. Reads the full PR diff via `gh pr diff` (no truncation — full Copilot context window)
3. Reads the PR description and extracts linked issue number from `Closes #N`
4. Reads acceptance criteria from the linked issue
5. Checks CI status via `gh aw checks <PR_NUMBER> --json` and uses the returned `state`
6. Reviews against: acceptance criteria, correctness, security, scope, code quality, tests
7. Posts verdict comment with `[PIPELINE-VERDICT]` marker and `VERDICT: APPROVE` or `VERDICT: REQUEST_CHANGES`

Decision rules:
- **APPROVE**: all acceptance criteria met, no bugs/security issues, code is in scope, and CI `state` is not `failed` or `policy_blocked`
- **REQUEST_CHANGES**: any criteria not met, bugs/security issues, out-of-scope changes, CI `state` is `failed`, or CI `state` is `policy_blocked`
- **CI `failed`**: REQUEST_CHANGES based on the authoritative `gh aw checks` state
- **CI `pending`**: may still APPROVE because merge remains gated
- **CI `no_checks`**: review on code/tests alone
- **CI `policy_blocked`**: REQUEST_CHANGES until required checks or branch protection policy are satisfied
- **Minor style issues**: not grounds for REQUEST_CHANGES (be pragmatic)

#### pr-review-submit

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/pr-review-submit.yml` |
| **Engine** | Standard GitHub Actions (`github-actions[bot]`) |
| **Trigger** | `issue_comment: created` — fires when pr-review-agent posts its verdict |
| **Output** | Formal APPROVE or REQUEST_CHANGES GitHub review; auto-merge; repo-assist dispatch |

Standard workflow that runs as `github-actions[bot]`. Watches for comments containing
`[PIPELINE-VERDICT]` on PRs, parses the verdict, and submits the formal GitHub
review. This is the identity that satisfies GitHub's self-approval restriction.
For approved `[Pipeline]` PRs, the workflow then enables auto-merge with
`GH_AW_GITHUB_TOKEN` so the merge commit to `main` still triggers downstream
push-based workflows such as Azure deploy.

Submit process:
1. Detects verdict comment via `[PIPELINE-VERDICT]` marker
2. Fetches comment body via API (avoids shell injection — never uses `${{ github.event.comment.body }}` in run blocks)
3. Parses `VERDICT: APPROVE` or `VERDICT: REQUEST_CHANGES` — defaults to REQUEST_CHANGES if unparseable
4. Submits formal GitHub review as `github-actions[bot]`
5. On APPROVE of `[Pipeline]` PRs: marks draft ready, enables auto-merge (squash)
6. After review: checks for remaining pipeline issues, dispatches `repo-assist` (APPROVE) or posts `/repo-assist` on linked issue (REQUEST_CHANGES)

### pipeline-status

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/pipeline-status.md` |
| **Engine** | Copilot (gpt-5) |
| **Trigger** | Daily schedule |
| **Output** | Updated status issue |

Read-only reporting workflow. Scans all pipeline issues and PRs, categorizes them
(open, in-progress, blocked, completed), and updates a single `[Pipeline] Status`
issue with a summary table.

### close-issues

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/close-issues.yml` |
| **Engine** | Standard GitHub Actions |
| **Trigger** | `pull_request: closed` (merged only) |
| **Output** | Closes linked issues via `gh issue close` |

Dedicated workflow for closing issues referenced by `Closes #N` (and variants) in
merged PR bodies. Isolated from pr-review-submit with its own concurrency group
(`close-issues-{PR_NUMBER}`, `cancel-in-progress: false`) to prevent the job from
being cancelled by concurrent workflow runs.

Fetches the PR body via `gh pr view` (not `${{ github.event.pull_request.body }}`)
to avoid script injection vulnerabilities.

### pipeline-watchdog

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/pipeline-watchdog.yml` |
| **Engine** | Standard GitHub Actions |
| **Trigger** | Cron (every 30 minutes), manual dispatch |
| **Output** | `/repo-assist` comments, repo-assist dispatches, and escalation/cleanup actions |

Cron-based stall detector that replaces the human supervisor. The current
implementation scans four classes of problems each cycle:

1. **Active CI repair incidents** — retries or escalates unresolved CI repair loops
   on open `[Pipeline]` PRs that still carry an active incident marker.
2. **Stalled PRs** — Open `[Pipeline]` PRs with a `CHANGES_REQUESTED` review and no
   activity for 30+ minutes, excluding PRs already covered by an active CI incident.
3. **Orphaned issues** — Open actionable pipeline issues with no linked open PR and
   no recent activity.
4. **Stale notifications and cleanup** — closes superseded duplicate PRs and stale
   `[aw]` workflow failure issues after dispatching a fresh retry.

Safety mechanisms:
- Skips all dispatches if repo-assist is already running (prevents flooding)
- One action per cycle (stalled PR takes priority over orphaned issue)
- Concurrency group `pipeline-watchdog` with `cancel-in-progress: false`
- Posts completion notice on status issue when all pipeline items are resolved

### ci-failure-issue

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/ci-failure-issue.yml` |
| **Engine** | Standard GitHub Actions |
| **Trigger** | `workflow_run: completed` for `.NET CI`, `Node CI`, `Docker CI`, `Deploy Router`, and `Deploy to Azure` when `conclusion == 'failure'` |
| **Output** | Routes PR-linked failures back into the repair loop; creates standalone incident issues for fallback and escalation cases |

Self-healing workflow router. When CI or deploy fails, this workflow extracts the
failed-step logs via `gh run view --log-failed`, normalizes the failure signature,
and decides which remediation path applies.

Primary path:

- If the failure belongs to an open `[Pipeline]` PR with a linked source issue, the
  router writes a PR incident state comment, labels the PR, and posts a structured
  `ci-repair-command:v1` comment on the linked issue so `repo-assist` repairs the
  existing PR branch in place.

Fallback and escalation paths:

- If the failure is on `main`, the PR is not a `[Pipeline]` PR, the PR has no linked
  issue, or repair dispatch fails, the workflow creates or updates a standalone
  `[CI Incident]` issue instead of silently dropping the event.

### dotnet-ci

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/dotnet-ci.yml` |
| **Engine** | Standard GitHub Actions |
| **Trigger** | `pull_request` to `main` |
| **Output** | Pass/fail status on the PR |

Runs `dotnet restore`, `dotnet build`, and `dotnet test` against the solution file.
Feeds into `ci-failure-issue` on failure.

## Self-Healing Loops

The pipeline has three feedback loops that allow it to recover from failures without
human intervention:

1. **Watchdog stall recovery** — `pipeline-watchdog` runs every 30 minutes. If a PR
   has a `CHANGES_REQUESTED` review and no activity for 30+ min, it posts `/repo-assist`
   on the linked issue. If an issue has no linked PR for 30+ min, it dispatches
   `repo-assist` directly.

2. **CI failure auto-fix** — When `.NET CI`, `Node CI`, `Docker CI`, `Deploy Router`,
   or `Deploy to Azure` fails, `ci-failure-issue` either routes the failure back to
   the linked source issue/PR repair loop or creates a standalone incident issue for
   fallback and escalation. The primary repair cycle is: CI failure → repair command
   on linked issue → repo-assist → PR update → CI pass.

3. **Superseded PR cleanup** — Both `pr-review-submit` (on merge) and `pipeline-watchdog`
   (on cron) detect open PRs whose linked issue was already closed by another merged PR,
   and close them with `--delete-branch`.

## PRD Lifecycle

The pipeline follows a repeatable **drop → run → tag → showcase → reset** cycle:

```
1. Drop PRD          bash scripts/start-run.sh ~/my-prd.md
2. Decompose         Comment /decompose on the PRD issue
3. Pipeline runs     Agent implements all issues → PRs → merge (no-touch)
4. Tag & archive     bash scripts/archive-run.sh 03 my-project v3.0.0
5. Clean slate       Ready for the next PRD
```

**Permanent** (pipeline infrastructure): `.github/`, `scripts/`, `docs/prd/`, `showcase/`, `AGENTS.md`, `README.md`
**Ephemeral** (removed on archive): application source code, project/solution files, dependency manifests, config files, `docs/plans/`

## Key Design Decisions

**Squash merge with PR_BODY** — The repo is configured so squash merge commits
use the PR body as the commit message. Since repo-assist writes `Closes #N` in
every PR body, squash merging preserves the issue reference. Pipeline PRs are
auto-merged with `GH_AW_GITHUB_TOKEN` rather than `GITHUB_TOKEN` so the merge
to `main` can trigger downstream workflows. The dedicated `close-issues`
workflow remains as deterministic issue cleanup after each merge.

**Orphan branch memory** — repo-assist stores state in a JSON file on the
`memory/repo-assist` orphan branch. This persists across workflow runs without
polluting the main branch history.

**Full context review** — pr-review-agent uses the Copilot engine (gpt-5) with a
64K-128K+ context window and reads the full PR diff via `gh pr diff` with no
truncation. This eliminates false "missing files" rejections that occurred with the
previous GitHub Models API approach (4K token limit, 300-line truncation).
Unrecognized verdicts default to REQUEST_CHANGES (fail-safe).

**Identity separation** — Agentic workflows run under the Copilot app identity.
pr-review-submit runs under `github-actions[bot]`. This lets the reviewer approve PRs
created by the Copilot agent without violating GitHub's self-approval rules.
pr-review-agent (Copilot identity) posts only a verdict comment; pr-review-submit
(github-actions[bot] identity) submits the formal GitHub review.

**Re-dispatch loop** — After each merge, pr-review-submit checks for remaining open
issues and re-dispatches repo-assist. This creates a continuous loop that runs
until all issues from the PRD are implemented.

## Secrets

| Secret | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `GH_AW_GITHUB_TOKEN` | Token for gh-aw agentic workflows and pipeline auto-merge |
| `COPILOT_GITHUB_TOKEN` | Copilot agent token |

Note: `MODELS_TOKEN` is no longer required — pr-review-agent uses the Copilot engine
directly instead of the GitHub Models REST API.

## Repo Settings

Configured by `scripts/bootstrap.sh` and manual ruleset setup:

- Squash merge commit message: `PR_BODY` (preserves `Closes #N`)
- Allow auto-merge: enabled
- Ruleset "Protect main": 1 required review + `review` status check, squash-only, admin bypass

Commit message:

Add a healing pause switch and workflow safety guards

docs/ARCHITECTURE.md, after:

# Architecture

## Pipeline Overview

The agentic pipeline turns Product Requirements Documents (PRDs) into shipped code
with minimal human intervention. Ten workflows cooperate in a loop:

```
 You write a PRD
       |
       v
 +-----------------+     creates      +------------------+
 | prd-decomposer  | ──────────────>  | GitHub Issues    |
 | (agentic, gpt-5)|     (atomic,     | with acceptance  |
 +-----------------+   ordered by dep) | criteria         |
       |                               +------------------+
       | dispatches                           |
       v                                      |
 +-----------------+     implements           |
 | repo-assist     | <───────────────────────-+
 | (agentic, gpt-5)|
 +-----------------+
       |
       | opens PR
       v
 +-----------------+  posts verdict   +--------------------+
 | pr-review-agent | ──────────────> | pr-review-submit | ──> Squash merge (auto)
 | (agentic, gpt-5)|  (comment)       | (GHA, bot)         |
 +-----------------+                  +--------------------+
       |                                      |
       | re-dispatches if                     | triggers
       | issues remain                        v
       |                              +------------------+
       |                              | close-issues     |
       |                              | (GHA, on merge)  |
       |                              +------------------+
       v                                      |
 +-----------------+                          |
 | repo-assist     | <───── cycle continues ──+
 +-----------------+
       ^
       |  detects stalls
 +-----------------+
 | pipeline-       |
 | watchdog        |
 | (cron, 30 min)  |
 +-----------------+
```

## Workflows

### prd-decomposer

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/prd-decomposer.md` |
| **Engine** | Copilot (gpt-5) |
| **Trigger** | `/decompose` command on an issue |
| **Output** | Up to 20 atomic GitHub Issues with `[Pipeline]` prefix, acceptance criteria, and dependency ordering |

Reads a PRD from the issue body, decomposes it into implementable issues labeled
`pipeline` + a type label (`feature`, `infra`, `test`, `docs`, `bug`). Issues
reference each other via temporary IDs for dependency ordering. After creating
all issues, dispatches `repo-assist` once.

### repo-assist

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/repo-assist.md` |
| **Engine** | Copilot (gpt-5) |
| **Trigger** | Dispatch from prd-decomposer or pr-review-submit, daily schedule, `/repo-assist` command |
| **Output** | Up to 4 PRs per run |

Runs a 5-task cycle each invocation:

1. **Implement issues** — picks unblocked pipeline issues, creates branches from `main`, writes code, runs tests, opens PRs with `Closes #N`
2. **Maintain PRs** — fixes CI failures and merge conflicts on open pipeline PRs
3. **Unblock dependents** — comments on issues whose dependencies have resolved
4. **Handle review feedback** — implements requested changes from pr-review-agent
5. **Update project board** — posts a status update to the [GitHub Projects v2 board](https://github.com/users/samuelkahessay/projects/2) every run

Persists memory on an orphan branch (`memory/repo-assist`) to track attempted
issues, outcomes, and backlog state across runs.

### pr-review-agent + pr-review-submit

The PR reviewer is split into two workflows to preserve **identity separation**:

#### pr-review-agent

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/pr-review-agent.md` |
| **Engine** | Copilot (gpt-5) — full 64K-128K+ context window |
| **Trigger** | Automatic on PR opened/updated/ready; `workflow_dispatch` |
| **Output** | Verdict comment on the PR (starting with `[PIPELINE-VERDICT]`) |

Agentic workflow that runs as the Copilot app identity. Reads the **full PR diff**
(no truncation), linked issue acceptance criteria, CI status, and AGENTS.md. Posts
a structured verdict comment — does NOT submit a formal GitHub review.

Review process:
1. Reads AGENTS.md for project context and coding standards
2. Reads the full PR diff via `gh pr diff` (no truncation — full Copilot context window)
3. Reads the PR description and extracts linked issue number from `Closes #N`
4. Reads acceptance criteria from the linked issue
5. Checks CI status via `gh aw checks <PR_NUMBER> --json` and uses the returned `state`
6. Reviews against: acceptance criteria, correctness, security, scope, code quality, tests
7. Posts verdict comment with `[PIPELINE-VERDICT]` marker and `VERDICT: APPROVE` or `VERDICT: REQUEST_CHANGES`

Decision rules:
- **APPROVE**: all acceptance criteria met, no bugs/security issues, code is in scope, and CI `state` is not `failed` or `policy_blocked`
- **REQUEST_CHANGES**: any criteria not met, bugs/security issues, out-of-scope changes, CI `state` is `failed`, or CI `state` is `policy_blocked`
- **CI `failed`**: REQUEST_CHANGES based on the authoritative `gh aw checks` state
- **CI `pending`**: may still APPROVE because merge remains gated
- **CI `no_checks`**: review on code/tests alone
- **CI `policy_blocked`**: REQUEST_CHANGES until required checks or branch protection policy are satisfied
- **Minor style issues**: not grounds for REQUEST_CHANGES (be pragmatic)

#### pr-review-submit

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/pr-review-submit.yml` |
| **Engine** | Standard GitHub Actions (`github-actions[bot]`) |
| **Trigger** | `issue_comment: created` — fires when pr-review-agent posts its verdict |
| **Output** | Formal APPROVE or REQUEST_CHANGES GitHub review; auto-merge; repo-assist dispatch |

Standard workflow that runs as `github-actions[bot]`. Watches for comments containing
`[PIPELINE-VERDICT]` on PRs, parses the verdict, and submits the formal GitHub
review. This is the identity that satisfies GitHub's self-approval restriction.
For approved `[Pipeline]` PRs, the workflow then enables auto-merge with
`GH_AW_GITHUB_TOKEN` so the merge commit to `main` still triggers downstream
push-based workflows such as Azure deploy.

Submit process:
1. Detects verdict comment via `[PIPELINE-VERDICT]` marker
2. Fetches comment body via API (avoids shell injection — never uses `${{ github.event.comment.body }}` in run blocks)
3. Parses `VERDICT: APPROVE` or `VERDICT: REQUEST_CHANGES` — defaults to REQUEST_CHANGES if unparseable
4. Submits formal GitHub review as `github-actions[bot]`
5. On APPROVE of `[Pipeline]` PRs: marks draft ready, enables auto-merge (squash)
6. After review: checks for remaining pipeline issues, dispatches `repo-assist` (APPROVE) or posts `/repo-assist` on linked issue (REQUEST_CHANGES)

### pipeline-status

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/pipeline-status.md` |
| **Engine** | Copilot (gpt-5) |
| **Trigger** | Daily schedule |
| **Output** | Updated status issue |

Read-only reporting workflow. Scans all pipeline issues and PRs, categorizes them
(open, in-progress, blocked, completed), and updates a single `[Pipeline] Status`
issue with a summary table.

### close-issues

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/close-issues.yml` |
| **Engine** | Standard GitHub Actions |
| **Trigger** | `pull_request: closed` (merged only) |
| **Output** | Closes linked issues via `gh issue close` |

Dedicated workflow for closing issues referenced by `Closes #N` (and variants) in
merged PR bodies. Isolated from pr-review-submit with its own concurrency group
(`close-issues-{PR_NUMBER}`, `cancel-in-progress: false`) to prevent the job from
being cancelled by concurrent workflow runs.

Fetches the PR body via `gh pr view` (not `${{ github.event.pull_request.body }}`)
to avoid script injection vulnerabilities.

### pipeline-watchdog

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/pipeline-watchdog.yml` |
| **Engine** | Standard GitHub Actions |
| **Trigger** | Cron (every 30 minutes), manual dispatch |
| **Output** | `/repo-assist` comments, repo-assist dispatches, and escalation/cleanup actions |

Cron-based stall detector that replaces the human supervisor. The current
implementation scans four classes of problems each cycle:

1. **Active CI repair incidents** — retries or escalates unresolved CI repair loops
   on open `[Pipeline]` PRs that still carry an active incident marker.
2. **Stalled PRs** — Open `[Pipeline]` PRs with a `CHANGES_REQUESTED` review and no
   activity for 30+ minutes, excluding PRs already covered by an active CI incident.
3. **Orphaned issues** — Open actionable pipeline issues with no linked open PR and
   no recent activity.
4. **Stale notifications and cleanup** — closes superseded duplicate PRs and stale
   `[aw]` workflow failure issues after dispatching a fresh retry.

Safety mechanisms:
- Skips all dispatches if repo-assist is already running (prevents flooding)
- One action per cycle (stalled PR takes priority over orphaned issue)
- Concurrency group `pipeline-watchdog` with `cancel-in-progress: false`
- Honors repository variable `PIPELINE_HEALING_ENABLED=false` and exits without
  taking write actions
- Posts completion notice on status issue when all pipeline items are resolved

### ci-failure-issue

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/ci-failure-issue.yml` |
| **Engine** | Standard GitHub Actions |
| **Trigger** | `workflow_run: completed` for `.NET CI`, `Node CI`, `Docker CI`, `Deploy Router`, and `Deploy to Azure` when `conclusion == 'failure'` |
| **Output** | Routes PR-linked failures back into the repair loop; creates standalone incident issues for fallback and escalation cases |

Self-healing workflow router. When CI or deploy fails, this workflow extracts the
failed-step logs via `gh run view --log-failed`, normalizes the failure signature,
and decides which remediation path applies.

Primary path:

- If the failure belongs to an open `[Pipeline]` PR with a linked source issue, the
  router writes a PR incident state comment, labels the PR, and posts a structured
  `ci-repair-command:v1` comment on the linked issue so `repo-assist` repairs the
  existing PR branch in place.

Fallback and escalation paths:

- If the failure is on `main`, the PR is not a `[Pipeline]` PR, the PR has no linked
  issue, or repair dispatch fails, the workflow creates or updates a standalone
  `[CI Incident]` issue instead of silently dropping the event.
- If `PIPELINE_HEALING_ENABLED=false`, failure detection still runs and incident
  state is still recorded, but the router escalates instead of posting a repair
  command or creating an auto-dispatchable pipeline bug issue.

## Healing Pause Switch

The repository-level variable `PIPELINE_HEALING_ENABLED` acts as the stop-the-
bleeding control for the autonomous loop:

- Reviews still happen, and the `review` status check is still written.
- Failure detection still happens, and CI incidents are still recorded.
- Autonomous remediation, repo-assist dispatch, repair-command reposts, and
  pipeline PR auto-merge are paused when the variable is set to `false`.

### dotnet-ci

| | |
|---|---|
| **File** | `.github/workflows/dotnet-ci.yml` |
| **Engine** | Standard GitHub Actions |
| **Trigger** | `pull_request` to `main` |
| **Output** | Pass/fail status on the PR |

Runs `dotnet restore`, `dotnet build`, and `dotnet test` against the solution file.
Feeds into `ci-failure-issue` on failure.

## Self-Healing Loops

The pipeline has three feedback loops that allow it to recover from failures without
human intervention:

1. **Watchdog stall recovery** — `pipeline-watchdog` runs every 30 minutes. If a PR
   has a `CHANGES_REQUESTED` review and no activity for 30+ min, it posts `/repo-assist`
   on the linked issue. If an issue has no linked PR for 30+ min, it dispatches
   `repo-assist` directly.

2. **CI failure auto-fix** — When `.NET CI`, `Node CI`, `Docker CI`, `Deploy Router`,
   or `Deploy to Azure` fails, `ci-failure-issue` either routes the failure back to
   the linked source issue/PR repair loop or creates a standalone incident issue for
   fallback and escalation. The primary repair cycle is: CI failure → repair command
   on linked issue → repo-assist → PR update → CI pass.

3. **Superseded PR cleanup** — Both `pr-review-submit` (on merge) and `pipeline-watchdog`
   (on cron) detect open PRs whose linked issue was already closed by another merged PR,
   and close them with `--delete-branch`.

## PRD Lifecycle

The pipeline follows a repeatable **drop → run → tag → showcase → reset** cycle:

```
1. Drop PRD          bash scripts/start-run.sh ~/my-prd.md
2. Decompose         Comment /decompose on the PRD issue
3. Pipeline runs     Agent implements all issues → PRs → merge (no-touch)
4. Tag & archive     bash scripts/archive-run.sh 03 my-project v3.0.0
5. Clean slate       Ready for the next PRD
```

**Permanent** (pipeline infrastructure): `.github/`, `scripts/`, `docs/prd/`, `showcase/`, `AGENTS.md`, `README.md`
**Ephemeral** (removed on archive): application source code, project/solution files, dependency manifests, config files, `docs/plans/`

## Key Design Decisions

**Squash merge with PR_BODY** — The repo is configured so squash merge commits
use the PR body as the commit message. Since repo-assist writes `Closes #N` in
every PR body, squash merging preserves the issue reference. Pipeline PRs are
auto-merged with `GH_AW_GITHUB_TOKEN` rather than `GITHUB_TOKEN` so the merge
to `main` can trigger downstream workflows. The dedicated `close-issues`
workflow remains as deterministic issue cleanup after each merge.

**Orphan branch memory** — repo-assist stores state in a JSON file on the
`memory/repo-assist` orphan branch. This persists across workflow runs without
polluting the main branch history.

**Full context review** — pr-review-agent uses the Copilot engine (gpt-5) with a
64K-128K+ context window and reads the full PR diff via `gh pr diff` with no
truncation. This eliminates false "missing files" rejections that occurred with the
previous GitHub Models API approach (4K token limit, 300-line truncation).
Unrecognized verdicts default to REQUEST_CHANGES (fail-safe).

**Identity separation** — Agentic workflows run under the Copilot app identity.
pr-review-submit runs under `github-actions[bot]`. This lets the reviewer approve PRs
created by the Copilot agent without violating GitHub's self-approval rules.
pr-review-agent (Copilot identity) posts only a verdict comment; pr-review-submit
(github-actions[bot] identity) submits the formal GitHub review.

**Re-dispatch loop** — After each merge, pr-review-submit checks for remaining open
issues and re-dispatches repo-assist. This creates a continuous loop that runs
until all issues from the PRD are implemented.

## Secrets

| Secret | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `GH_AW_GITHUB_TOKEN` | Token for gh-aw agentic workflows and pipeline auto-merge |
| `COPILOT_GITHUB_TOKEN` | Copilot agent token |

Note: `MODELS_TOKEN` is no longer required — pr-review-agent uses the Copilot engine
directly instead of the GitHub Models REST API.

## Repo Settings

Configured by `scripts/bootstrap.sh` and manual ruleset setup:

- Squash merge commit message: `PR_BODY` (preserves `Closes #N`)
- Allow auto-merge: enabled
- Ruleset "Protect main": 1 required review + `review` status check, squash-only, admin bypass
