.github/workflows/prd-decomposer.md, before:

---
description: |
  Decomposes a Product Requirements Document (PRD) into atomic GitHub Issues.
  Each issue gets clear acceptance criteria, dependency references, and type labels.
  Triggered by the /decompose command on any issue or discussion containing a PRD.

on:
  workflow_dispatch:
  slash_command:
    name: decompose
  reaction: "eyes"

timeout-minutes: 15

engine:
  id: copilot
  model: gpt-5

permissions: read-all

network: defaults

safe-outputs:
  create-issue:
    title-prefix: "[Pipeline] "
    labels: [pipeline]
    max: 20
  add-comment:
    max: 5
  add-labels:
    allowed: [feature, test, infra, docs, bug, pipeline, blocked, ready]
    max: 40
  dispatch-workflow:
    workflows: [repo-assist]
    max: 1

tools:
  bash: true
  github:
    toolsets: [issues, labels]

---

# PRD Decomposer

You are a senior technical project manager. Your job is to read a Product Requirements Document (PRD) and decompose it into atomic, well-specified GitHub Issues that a coding agent can implement independently.

## Instructions

"${{ steps.sanitized.outputs.text }}"

If the instructions above contain a URL or file path, fetch/read that content as the PRD. If the instructions are empty, read the body of issue #${{ github.event.issue.number }} as the PRD.

## Decomposition Rules

1. **Read the PRD carefully.** Understand the full scope before creating any issues.

2. **Identify task dependencies.** Some tasks must be done before others (e.g., scaffold before features, features before tests).

3. **Create atomic issues.** Each issue should be:
   - Completable by one developer in 1-4 hours
   - Self-contained with all context needed to implement
   - Testable with clear acceptance criteria

4. **For each issue, include:**
   - A clear, descriptive title
   - A `## Description` section explaining what to build and why
   - A `## Acceptance Criteria` section as a markdown checklist
   - A `## Dependencies` section (use "Depends on #aw_ID" for issues in this batch)
   - A `## Technical Notes` section with relevant file paths, API signatures, or architectural guidance

5. **Label each issue** by passing a `labels` array with exactly one type: `feature`, `test`, `infra`, `docs`, or `bug`. The `pipeline` label is added automatically — do NOT include it.

6. **Create issues in dependency order:** infrastructure first, then core features, then dependent features, then tests/docs last.

7. **Use valid `temporary_id` values** for cross-referencing issues. Format: `aw_` + 3-8 alphanumeric chars (A-Za-z0-9 only). Use short codes like `aw_task1`, `aw_task2`, `aw_feat01`. Do NOT use `aw_create_task` or `aw_scaffold_project`. Reference dependencies with `#aw_task1` syntax.

8. **Self-contained acceptance criteria.** Each issue's acceptance criteria must ONLY reference files, functions, and artifacts that will be created or modified IN THAT ISSUE. Do not include criteria that depend on artifacts from other issues — those belong on the issue that creates the artifact. If a feature spans multiple issues, each issue's criteria cover only its portion. Example: if Issue A creates `page.tsx` and Issue B adds OG metadata to it, Issue B's criteria should say "Add OG metadata to the card page" NOT "Update `generateMetadata` in `src/app/card/[username]/page.tsx`" — because that file doesn't exist until Issue A merges.

## Tech Stack Detection

Before creating issues, determine the target tech stack and deploy profile:

1. **Check the PRD for explicit stack preference.** Look for mentions of specific frameworks (Next.js, React, .NET, Express), languages (TypeScript, C#, Python), or deployment targets (Vercel, Azure, Docker).

2. **If no explicit preference**, infer from the requirements:
   - Web dashboard, landing page, interactive UI, visualization → `nextjs-vercel`
   - API service, enterprise backend, .NET/C# → `dotnet-azure`
   - Multi-language, microservices, or unclear → `docker-generic`
   - Default (no clear signals): `nextjs-vercel`

3. **Read the selected deploy profile** from `.github/deploy-profiles/{profile-name}.yml` to understand the build, test, and deploy configuration.

4. **The FIRST issue must be a bootstrap/scaffold issue** that includes in its Technical Notes:
   - The selected deploy profile (e.g., "Deploy profile: `nextjs-vercel`")
   - Instruction: "Update `.deploy-profile` to `{profile-name}`"
   - Build, test, and deploy commands from the profile

## Output Format

After creating all issues:

1. **Dispatch the `repo-assist` workflow** to begin implementation automatically.
2. Post a summary comment on the original issue/discussion with:

```
## Pipeline Tasks Created

| # | Title | Type | Depends On |
|---|-------|------|------------|
| #1 | ... | infra | — |
| #2 | ... | feature | #aw_task1 |
...

Total: N issues created. Implementation starting automatically.
```

## Quality Checklist

Before creating each issue, verify:
- [ ] Title is specific (not "Implement feature 1")
- [ ] Acceptance criteria are testable (not "works correctly")
- [ ] Dependencies are accurate
- [ ] Technical notes reference actual project patterns
- [ ] Issue is small enough for a single PR
- [ ] temporary_id is `aw_` + 3-8 alphanumeric chars only (e.g., `aw_task1`)

Commit message:

chore: support enhancement-mode pipeline runs

.github/workflows/prd-decomposer.md, after:

---
description: |
  Decomposes a Product Requirements Document (PRD) into atomic GitHub Issues.
  Each issue gets clear acceptance criteria, dependency references, and type labels.
  Triggered by the /decompose command on any issue or discussion containing a PRD.

on:
  workflow_dispatch:
  slash_command:
    name: decompose
  reaction: "eyes"

timeout-minutes: 15

engine:
  id: copilot
  model: gpt-5

permissions: read-all

network: defaults

safe-outputs:
  create-issue:
    title-prefix: "[Pipeline] "
    labels: [pipeline]
    max: 20
  add-comment:
    max: 5
  add-labels:
    allowed: [feature, test, infra, docs, bug, pipeline, blocked, ready]
    max: 40
  dispatch-workflow:
    workflows: [repo-assist]
    max: 1

tools:
  bash: true
  github:
    toolsets: [issues, labels]

---

# PRD Decomposer

You are a senior technical project manager. Your job is to read a Product Requirements Document (PRD) and decompose it into atomic, well-specified GitHub Issues that a coding agent can implement independently.

## Instructions

"${{ steps.sanitized.outputs.text }}"

If the instructions above contain a URL or file path, fetch/read that content as the PRD. If the instructions are empty, read the body of issue #${{ github.event.issue.number }} as the PRD.

## Decomposition Rules

1. **Read the PRD carefully.** Understand the full scope before creating any issues.

2. **Identify task dependencies.** Some tasks must be done before others (e.g., scaffold before features, features before tests).

3. **Create atomic issues.** Each issue should be:
   - Completable by one developer in 1-4 hours
   - Self-contained with all context needed to implement
   - Testable with clear acceptance criteria

4. **For each issue, include:**
   - A clear, descriptive title
   - A `## Description` section explaining what to build and why
   - A `## Acceptance Criteria` section as a markdown checklist
   - A `## Dependencies` section (use "Depends on #aw_ID" for issues in this batch)
   - A `## Technical Notes` section with relevant file paths, API signatures, or architectural guidance

5. **Label each issue** by passing a `labels` array with exactly one type: `feature`, `test`, `infra`, `docs`, or `bug`. The `pipeline` label is added automatically — do NOT include it.

6. **Create issues in dependency order:** infrastructure first, then core features, then dependent features, then tests/docs last.

7. **Use valid `temporary_id` values** for cross-referencing issues. Format: `aw_` + 3-8 alphanumeric chars (A-Za-z0-9 only). Use short codes like `aw_task1`, `aw_task2`, `aw_feat01`. Do NOT use `aw_create_task` or `aw_scaffold_project`. Reference dependencies with `#aw_task1` syntax.

8. **Self-contained acceptance criteria.** Each issue's acceptance criteria must ONLY reference files, functions, and artifacts that will be created or modified IN THAT ISSUE. Do not include criteria that depend on artifacts from other issues — those belong on the issue that creates the artifact. If a feature spans multiple issues, each issue's criteria cover only its portion. Example: if Issue A creates `page.tsx` and Issue B adds OG metadata to it, Issue B's criteria should say "Add OG metadata to the card page" NOT "Update `generateMetadata` in `src/app/card/[username]/page.tsx`" — because that file doesn't exist until Issue A merges.

## Delivery Mode Detection

Before planning issues, inspect the repository state and determine whether the PRD is:

- **Greenfield** — a new app or service should be scaffolded
- **Enhancement** — the PRD extends or reworks the application already in the repo
- **Migration** — the PRD intentionally replaces the current stack or app foundation

Use the repo contents as evidence. Existing application directories, solution files, runtime configs, and deployed app assets are strong signals that this is an enhancement run unless the PRD explicitly says to replace them.

### Enhancement Mode Rules

If the PRD is an enhancement to the existing app:

1. **Do NOT create a bootstrap/scaffold issue by default.**
2. Reuse the active deploy profile unless the PRD explicitly requires a stack/deploy change.
3. Decompose against the current codebase. Technical Notes may reference existing files already present in the repo.
4. The first issue should start with the highest-leverage modification needed for the enhancement, not repo initialization.

### Greenfield or Migration Rules

If the PRD creates a new app or intentionally changes the app foundation:

1. Create a bootstrap/scaffold issue first.
2. Include the selected deploy profile and setup commands in that issue's Technical Notes.

## Tech Stack Detection

Before creating issues, determine the target tech stack and deploy profile:

1. **Check the PRD for explicit stack preference.** Look for mentions of specific frameworks (Next.js, React, .NET, Express), languages (TypeScript, C#, Python), or deployment targets (Vercel, Azure, Docker).

2. **If no explicit preference**, infer from the requirements:
   - Web dashboard, landing page, interactive UI, visualization → `nextjs-vercel`
   - API service, enterprise backend, .NET/C# → `dotnet-azure`
   - Multi-language, microservices, or unclear → `docker-generic`
   - Default (no clear signals): `nextjs-vercel`

3. **Read the selected deploy profile** from `.github/deploy-profiles/{profile-name}.yml` to understand the build, test, and deploy configuration.

4. **In greenfield or migration mode**, the FIRST issue must be a bootstrap/scaffold issue that includes in its Technical Notes:
   - The selected deploy profile (e.g., "Deploy profile: `nextjs-vercel`")
   - Instruction: "Update `.deploy-profile` to `{profile-name}`"
   - Build, test, and deploy commands from the profile

5. **In enhancement mode**, do not create a bootstrap issue unless the PRD explicitly requires replacing the stack, deploy profile, or app foundation.

## Output Format

After creating all issues:

1. **Dispatch the `repo-assist` workflow** to begin implementation automatically.
2. Post a summary comment on the original issue/discussion with:

```
## Pipeline Tasks Created

| # | Title | Type | Depends On |
|---|-------|------|------------|
| #1 | ... | infra | — |
| #2 | ... | feature | #aw_task1 |
...

Total: N issues created. Implementation starting automatically.
```

## Quality Checklist

Before creating each issue, verify:
- [ ] Title is specific (not "Implement feature 1")
- [ ] Acceptance criteria are testable (not "works correctly")
- [ ] Dependencies are accurate
- [ ] Technical notes reference actual project patterns
- [ ] Issue is small enough for a single PR
- [ ] temporary_id is `aw_` + 3-8 alphanumeric chars only (e.g., `aw_task1`)
